Our world is filled with breath-taking beauty.
Why did God create the earth in such a special way?
Even from space, it stands alone as wonderfully unique.
God created the earth with an abundance of water.
He placed it at just the right distance from the sun
and set its rotation at just the right speed.
He gave it a moon to stabilize the earth tilt, contributing to consistent seasons.
And he created an amazing variety of living creatures to share the earth with.
Why did God put forth so much effort to create this beautiful earth?
Because he wanted to give the first human couple, Adam and Eve, a wonderful home.
As long as they obeyed God, they and their children would live forever
and expand the paradise garden to cover the entire globe.
This was God's purpose for the earth.
So what happened?
Why isn't the earth a paradise?
Sadly, Adam and Eve chose to disobey God.
They eventually grew old and died.
Paradise was lost.
But did this mean that God's original purpose for the earth had changed?
Imagine that a father decides to build a beautiful home for his son.
He gives it to him as a gift, but instead of being thankful,
the son neglects his father's gift and the house falls into disrepair.
What would a loving father do?
Would he destroy the house and all his hard work?
No, he would patiently save it for a family member who would appreciate it.
In a similar way, although Adam rejected the gift,
the Bible tells us that God didn't change his purpose for the earth.
His purpose still stands.
He wants to give this gift an earthwide paradise to you,
to enjoy in happiness and health forever.
You may wonder, how will paradise be restored?
How can you live forever on earth?
To learn more about what the Bible says on this and many other topics,
go to jw.org.